2008 vs Coronavirus :

Yield Curve:



Lets make sure we understand what these compare
Recession : 2 consecutive quarters of decreasing GDP

GDP : A measure of output. the basic formula is C+I+G+X-M
So a recession is... 2 consecitoive fiscal quarters where the country
has had a decrease in output.

** insert image of decreased GDP

Unemployment rate : # of unemployed people / # of people in the labor
force

Risk Return : The longer your investment, the higher the Risk
the higher your return

Yield Curve: a line that plots the interest rates of bonds with
the same credit quality, and different maturity dates. Economist use
this to predict economic changes.

  Bond: a loan made by an 'investor' to a borrower. In our case, the
  borrower is the US government.

  Yiled Curve Types:
    Normal: Short term bonds interest is lower than long term
    Inverted:long term bonds interest is higher than short term
      * typically a sign of an upcoming recession
    Flat: rates are extremely similar
      * typically a sign of transition





POINTS:

Why we can't compare them:
- Financial Crisis was due to a flaw in the financial system, primarily
  in lending

- Coronavirus recession will end



How they are the same:
- stimulus packages
- increase in unemployment




CONVERSATION:

Introduction:
I decided to talk about the coronavirus recession and
compare the early stages of it to the 2008 recession.
And show how they are different in 1 fundamental way.

The Cause.

The 2008 Recession was caused by a systematic problem in
the financial industry, starting with the mortgage lending.
It was the demise of the financial system. There was a lot
of clean up.

The Coronavirus is technically not a recession. But it will be.
We just have to wait a few more days to technically call
it that. I will get into that later.

Defining a recession:

What is a Recession?
A recession is 2 consecutive quarters
of decreasing GDP

What is GDP?
Gross Domestic Product

In Normal People Terms?
It's the sum of all produced goods
in the United States

How is it Calculated?
C + I + G + X - M
Consumption + Investments + Government Spending + Exports - Imports

Why do we subtract imports?
Because those goods were not produced
in the United States therefor should not be counted
towards our production

Okay, Can You Put it All Together For Me?
A recession is defined by 2 consecutive quarters
in the sum of all produced goods
in the United States

In other words, a contracting economy
